Switching between external and internal ways in inter-component communication (#1704)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/installation-guide/partials/proc_switching-between-external-and-internal-communication.adoc

[id="switching-between-external-and-internal-communication_{context}"]
= Switching between external and internal ways in inter-component communication

> .Prerequisites
> 
> * The `{orch-cli}` tool is available.
> * An instance of {prod-short} running in {orch-name}.
> 
> IMPORTANT: The internal way of inter-component communication is set by default but it won't work in multicluster on OpenShift and in environments where communication between namespaces is restricted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The communication between {prod-cli} internal components uses the internal cluster host name.
In following situations, instead, use external {platforms-ingress} in inter-component communication:

* The OpenShift instance is running multiple {prod-short} instance.
* The environment is restricting communication between namespaces.

.Prerequisites

* The `{orch-cli}` tool is available.
* An instance of {prod-short} running in {platform-name}.

```

.Procedure

> . To use external ingress/route in inter-component communication:

Reviewer: Please use the  `{platforms-ingress}` attribute instead of "ingress/route"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To use external {platforms-ingress} in inter-component communication:
```

+
[subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
$ {orch-cli} patch checluster {prod-checluster} -n {prod-namespace} --type=json -p \
'[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/server/useInternalClusterSVCNames", "value": false}]'
----

> . To use internal cluster hostname in inter-component communication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To use internal cluster host name in inter-component communication:
```
